**We have added a comprehensive report as 'Report.pdf' in the repository.**

## Abstract:
Today, forecasting and predicting is one of the hottest trends in the industry. One of the industries that produce a huge amount of data every day is retailing. This data could be exploited to gain strategic insights for setting up appropriate inventory, achieving benchmark service levels, and so on. It is a challenge to handle and analyze this magnificent amount of data produced by the market giants. These companies invest a lot of their money and time to improve their forecasting solutions for achieving accurate predictions and estimating the levels of uncertainty in these predictions to avoid costly mistakes and maximize their revenue. So, we decided to work on this hot trend by choosing one of the biggest companies in the world, Walmart, where 95% of US shoppers spent their money.

## Introduction:
### Context:
In retail stores like Walmart with a rapid transaction rate, maintaining a balance between customer demand and inventory is a crucial task. If we could achieve optimal forecasts of product sales for the stores spread across various regions, it would enable the decision-makers to make the best use of limited inventory space and maximize the profits. Following on these lines, we will analyze the unit sales of products across the Walmart stores in the United States and try to make optimal predictions that could aid this decision making.
### Objective and Problem to Solve:
In this project, we will analyze the unit sales of products across the Walmart stores in the United States to first explore the factors that have a significant effect on the sales. Exploiting these factors, along with the corpus of historical sales data, we will implement a prediction system to estimate the unit sales of products at various stores for the next 28 days. In the process, we will analyze and exploit the explanatory variables like weekly prices, promotions, day of the week, special events (such as Super Bowl, Valentine’s Day, and Orthodox Easter), and so on.
Predicting unit sales can be as challenging as forecasting weather. For instance, a wrong prediction for the weather may result in us wearing a warm jacket or carrying around an umbrella on a sunny day. Similarly, an inaccurate prediction in a business scenario may result in financial losses or loss of opportunities. So, we will do an exploratory data analysis of the dataset incorporating various perspectives. We will further implement various machine learning algorithms and compare their results to determine the method that provides the most accurate predictions, also stating the uncertainties associated with it.
### Related Work:
The M5 Accuracy competition: Results, findings and conclusions: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/344487258_The_M5_Accuracy_competition_Results_findings_and_conclusions
Time Series Forecasting-EDA, FE & Modelling: https://www.kaggle.com/anshuls235/time-series-forecasting-eda-fe-modelling/
Contrary to most of the previous work, we will attempt to produce a more scalable solution to this problem with the application of Dask and PySpark.
